Here let me quit from tinker and clear the screen. I'll
reopen the tinker
here
firstly let's find two questions and assign
each one of them to variables.
`q1` app question
find 1 and then `q2` app question
find 2
Next let's friend three users and assign each one of them to other variables.
And now let's see the favorite of each instance
of course we'll find nothing because we haven't do anything yet
to both models
All right
now let's say user one favorite the question one.
Here we can say user 1
favorite
And then we call attach method
this method receives both integer value or object
But for now let's pass in the question id which is integer like so
q1 id
OK
Now if we call user one favorites again
we'll see it look no difference.
This is because we need to refresh the relationship like this.
user one load favorites
we'll see now user one has one favorite question.
Now let's say user one favorite the question 2
and again we can say user one favorites and then
attach and now instead of passing integer I can also
pass the question instance question two like so.
Now if we call user 1 favorites again.
Again we'll see it look no difference.
So here we need to refresh the relationship again.
All right so now that you know how to make relationship
between user and question using attach method
and you'll see that attach method receives integer value or object.
Actually it also receive array value contains integer values.
So let's say user two favorites
the question 1 and 2 and here we can do that like this.
user two favorites attach
Passing the array
And here
question 1 id and then question two id.
We can also link between user and question
model through inverse relationship.
So let's say user 3 favorite
question 1
Here we can do like so
question 1 favorites attach user 3
now if we call user 3 favorites
here we can see user three has favorite
question one
OK
One last more thing before we see how to remove the
relationship record is to show you what happened if
we tried to insert the same record.
Here we have attached question one with user three
Now if we try again
We'll get error because in the migration file we have prevent that by define index that compose of user
id and question id.
All right
now let's see how to release or remove the relationship record.
Let's say user one unfavorite
The question two here we can type user 1 favorites and then call the detach method pass the question
two instance
now let's call  user one favorites
actually let's reload the relationship to see the change
as you can see
now user one now favorite only question 1 like the
attach method this the detach method also accept an
array.
Here let's say user two unfavorite
Question 1 and 2 and we can do that like
so user two favorites
detach
question one id and question two id
now if we see the favorites
user two now has favorite
nothing.
Lastly we can check if a particular question favorited by particular user by saying question 1
favourites where user id let's say user one id count
let's see if the question 1 favorited by user two
why I alwasy get false
Actually I need parenthesis here
because favorite like this will return collection
here we can see that question 1 favorited
by User 1. And here we
get false which means it's not a favorited by user 2
All right
enough playing and let's quit prom tinker
let's switch to our editor and here in the question model
we can define new method
let's call it is fAvorited
And here we simply return
and then copy this line
and paste here.
Here since we are in question model we can change
this variable to this which refers to current model
and we can replace the user instance with the current user's id.
Let's also define an accessor for this method.
get is favorited attribute
and here we simply call return
this is favorited
and last
let's also define another accessor that will return favorites count
Here
we simply return
this favorites count
All right so now that you know how to work with many
to many relationship before we actually apply that
in our application and make the favorite button works
let's play that
in our database seeder to make fake
favorite questions in our database.
And here I miss parenthesis